---
title: "MS5318 Predictive Analytics"
collection: teaching
type: "Postgraduate course"
permalink: /teaching/MS5318/
venue: "City University of Hong Kong, College of Business"
date: 2023-01-01
location: "Hong Kong"
---

This is a required course for taught master program MSc. in _Operations and Supply Chain Management_. The goal of this course is to enable students to make business decisions with the support of data. The focus is how to perform predictive analysis using Excel, R, and Python.

## Teaching Evaluations (7-point scale)


Year | Section | Overall Rating | Department Average | College Average
:---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---:
2018-2019 | 01 | **6.71** | **5.91** | **5.95**
2018-2019 | 02 | **6.30** | **5.91** | **5.95**
2019-2020 | 01 | **6.58** | **5.71** | **5.76**
2019-2020 | 02 | **6.33** | **5.71** | **5.76**


## Teaching Evaluations (5-point scale)
I receive the Recognition of Outstanding Teaching Performance in 2022-2023 academic year (the top 5% of teachers).

Year | Section | Overall Rating | Department Average | College Average
:---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---:
2022-2023 | 01 | **4.83** | **4.23** | **4.23**
2022-2023 | 02 | **4.64** | **4.23** | **4.23**


### Comments from students
> The teacher is so great, love this course so much! He always tells us some interesting stories and very funny. He explains the model clearly and vividly. Quite interesting and useful course.

> Through this course we have learned a very useful R language, which will be of great help to our future data analysis. The professor provided a lot of questions for us to practice and strengthen the knowledge

> Lecturer is great. He has passion to teach us.

> The coverage and design of the course is comprehensive, practical, and useful. The pace of teaching is also about
right.

> Good teacher

> Dr. SUN has the strong background of the statistical knowledge and he can use the most effective way to help his students understand the difficult theories. 
